# Deploying Hermes with an Application

As previously stated, Jarvis can be used to deploy and application
with Hermes. This will automatically set environment variables
(e.g., LD_PRELOAD) that will be necessary for the application to
run. This assumes the application is integrated with Jarvis.

This example, the application is the IOR benchmark.

## Build an Environment

We will now load all necessary environment variables and build a
Jarvis environment named hermes:

```bash
spack install ior
```

```bash
spack load iowarp
spack load ior
jarvis env build hermes
```

## Copy the IOR Pipeline
```bash
jarvis ppl index copy jarvis_hermes.test_ior
```

This will create a pipeline script named ``test_ior.yaml`` in your
current working directory that contains the following:
```yaml
name: hermes_unit_ior
env: hermes
pkgs:
  # Launch IOWarp runtime
  - pkg_type: chimaera_run
    pkg_name: chimaera_run
    sleep: 5
    do_dbg: false
    dbg_port: 4000
    port: 6000
    modules: ['hermes_hermes_core']
  # Add hermes to the runtime
  - pkg_type: hermes_run
    pkg_name: hermes_run
    do_dbg: false
    dbg_port: 4000
  # Intercept client I/O calls
  - pkg_type: hermes_api
    pkg_name: hermes_api
    mpi: true
  # Launch IOR
  - pkg_type: ior
    pkg_name: ior
    api: mpiio
    out: /tmp/test_hermes/ior.bin  # Output directory
    xfer: 1m
    block: 32m
    nprocs: 4  # Total number of processes
    ppn: 1  # Process per node
```

NOTE: Hermes creates the file named libhermes_hermes_core.so,
which is why we use hermes_hermes_core as the module name here.

You can edit the parameters to this script. E.g., change number
of processes in IOR, buffering locations, etc. This file does not
demonstrate every single parameter of iowarp, but gives some
configuration options.

To view the arguments for the cte and iowarp runtime:
```bash
jarvis pkg help hermes_run
jarvis pkg help chimaera_run
```

## Load the pipeline

Load the IOR yaml:
```bash
jarvis ppl load yaml test_ior.yaml
```

## Run the Pipeline

To run the pipeline:

```bash
jarvis ppl run
```

## Cleanup

The following will delete intermediate data generated by Hermes + IOR:

```bash
jarvis ppl clean
```

## Why is my application hanging?

### Resource Graph Misconfiguration

Commonly, the cause is a misconfiguration in the resource graph, specifically
with the network section. If the resource graph is misconfigured, Hermes may
crash with a ``mercury->fatal`` error and ultimately cause the program to stall
forever. Make sure that the domain, provider, and fabric are valid. To view the
Hermes configuration to see which network was selected from your resource graph,
you can run:

```bash
cat $(jarvis path)/hermes_run/hermes_server.yaml
```

### Dependency Problems

If you are using the MPI-IO interceptor, make sure that the MPI that Hermes
compiled with is equivalent to the one your application was compiled with.
You may have multiple versions of MPI installed and if you didn't specify
which one when installing Hermes and your program -- they may be different.

If you are using the VFD, make sure the VFD was compiled with the same HDF5
as the application.

To view the dependencies of your installed Hermes, run:
```
spack find -c -d hermes
```

### Machine Misconfiguration

We have found certain instances where using semantic hostnames in the hostfile
has resulted in incorrect behavior. If the machine is misconfigured, it is
possible that a hostname maps to a different network domain on different nodes.
To verify this, you can try using exact IP addresses in your hostfile.

To view your machine's IP addresses, you can run
``ip addr show`` or ``fi_info | grep fabric``

### Permissions Problems

If you cannot SSH between machines or if your known_hosts file is outdated,
it is possible that Hermes will fail to launch due to permissions problems
on the network. Make sure that you can SSH between machines without error.
